# Predicting live fuel moisture content dynamics with process-based models in Mediterranean forests

### Introduction

Although wildfires are a natural component of Mediterranean ecosystems, their frequency and intensity are increasing because of climate change, extending fire seasons, and elevating wildfire risk. A critical factor influencing fire behaviour is live fuel moisture content (LFMC), the moisture content of live foliage and small twigs. This study attempts to improve the modelling of LFMC dynamics in Mediterranean forests evaluating the predictive performance of the process-based model MEDFATE. We used data from 38 plots across the Mediterranean areas of Catalonia and SE of France, to simulate LFMC. We assessed how different data sources employed as MEDFATEs inputs influenced the model predictive LFMC accuracy. In addition, we compared the LFMC predictions generated by a Fully-Mechanistic approach with a Semi-Mechanistic method, which combines a process-based predawn leaf water potential (Ψpd) with an empirical LFMC relationship.

### Contributors

 + Albert Sañé Codony (MSc project)
 + Miquel De Cáceres Ainsa
 + Rodrigo Balaguer Romano

### Directory structure

Although not all data are available in the repository, the scripts assume the following directory structure:

+ *raw-data/* - Raw data files (LFMC, vegetation, MODIS, etc.)
+ *data/inputs/* - Processed data ready for simulation and evaluation.
+ *data/sf_inputs/* - Input objects for package **medfateland**.
+ *data/results/* - Simulation results from package **medfateland**.
+ *data/comparison_tables/* - Tables including observed and predicted LFMC values.
+ *data/evaluation_tables/* - Tables containing statistical evaluation results.
+ *data/report_tables/* - Tables for manuscript writing (supplementary information).
+ *plots/* - Graphical results (scatter plots, time series, maps, figures).
+ *R/data_preparation/* - Scripts for data preparation (reads from raw-data and writes on data/inputs).
+ *R/simulations/* - Scripts for model simulations (reads from data/inputs and writes on data/sf_inputs and data/results). 
+ *R/evaluation/* - Scripts for graphical and statistical evaluation of LFMC predictions.
+ *Rmd/* - R markdown reports.
